Thank you. Again, we do practice and meditation of Dzogchen toghede. It is one of the, I think, I
sincerely talk it. It is one of the very wonderful moments where we all can do Toghede.
We received so many teachings, so many teachings since you all entered the Dharma, and also I too
received a lot of teachings that I think is really very important to practice more meditation and
practice, and to cultivate more love and compassion and joy and bodhicata in the heart behind.
Along with that Dzogchen meditation. Dzogchen meditation is the absolute bodhicata, so it is
nothing separated from the bodhicata. Dzogchen is the big of all the practicing teachings.
And Dzogchen embodies all the practices, such as joy, appreciation, love and kindness and
compassion taught. All that really, that is more relative, outreaching. Love, joy, appreciation,
bodhicata to all the beings, that is more outreaching.
But inwardly to activate it more deeply of the understanding of one's own in the nature of the mind
, and the discovery it is beauty and treasure. That is really Dzogchen practices.
So I think, combine it together in the teaching, always in the union of the two merits,
accumulation merit and the western merit. And accumulation merit practice is all those joy,
appreciation and bodhicata.
And the western merit is then Dzogchen meditation, and Dzogchen meditation. So I think that we are
all going to focus on this, and I am going to give the teachings about three times in a week, but
then beside that also with you and me, all of us really trying to cultivate more, kind of now,
deepen our practices, deepen our bodhicata, deepen our joy and appreciation,
deepen a more understandable, whole renunciation thought. All four different points that change the
mind, really, with more practice, more happy, and more determination, more courage, more commitment
to make meaningful of my life, or the rest of my life.
I believe this world is full of confidence and joy, and connected with future plans, in a way,
destinations, and we're not going to lose the conclusion in which I am living my journey on the
departures, in this time.
I really feel those strong heart and mind, and feel also same time, by the blessings of the old,
the blessed, the modest, the converged, and the somewhat linear, masterful, blessed, to profile our
all, the genuine, very beautiful, rich that we have, really, to kind of profile those qualities.
The abundance of the richness of the trail that we discovered with our mind, from our mind, and
live that this world with this.
And the legacy of what we're able to achieve in this life, for the externally, we leave that for
the benefit of all living beings, to secure the Buddha teaching, for same time, to kind of bring
more abundance of the good qualities checked with us, that richness.
And that is really the practice, symbol of the practitioners. What are you going to practice on?
Opti-meditation, or those old great masters, like, such as when you read the life story of the
great masters, and the Buddhas too, Bharatas, and Bodhisattvas, everyone, really, really, life
story, they have completely fulfilled their goal, externally, but same time, they really fulfilled
so much their goal and treasure from heart and mind.
And not just a kind of talking, talking, but truly in heart and mind. And then that is really, they
're so important, and that is really the practices.
And we're trying to really make this retreat, as we've always been one, we've been trying to get
practices, a small group, to get practices, cultivating, that's been so good.
And I just want you all to really understand that those qualities, and make this meaningful of our
time together, and it is wonderful.
We have beautiful places, and with great kindness, in comparison of all, so many Dharma patterns,
really, we have beautiful, now we enjoy, and kind of make this meaningful to cultivate our strength
and the treasures of the mind.
So I think I'm going to read some of the things, I'll get it again, but thank you, thank you so
much everyone for coming, everybody, and thank you, thank you, thank you.